we will write a program for finding the area of a triangle.
Already we have seen the formula in the previous video.
Now we will write a complete program so already in one of the video I have discuss what is the procedure
and how to develop a program.
So every basic program will have three parts or three elements first is input.
It will take some input and then process the output.
So these are the three steps that we will follow.
So program should have these three things, some basic program, so whatever they input has or take it to take
the values.
Then it will process them and give output.
So let us see for what we have to write on a program.
We have to write a program for finding the area.
So this is the formula base into height divided by two and that is area.
So in this what is input base into height is input then more output Area is output.
So this is output and these two are input of a program.
Great.
So now program should take two inputs and then give the output.
So for this first of all every drop flow chart first thing is starting off the flow chart.
So this is start now.
Next we should take input.
See imagine I am a program and you are using the program.
So you are a user.
So I have to find out the area of the triangle, then what I should know I should know what is base and
height then I should ask you tell me what is base and height.
So I should take input from you.
So the first thing is input.
So first of all I should ask.
Please enter base and height so that can be done by  using a parallelogram.
So input and output box.
So here print I will write the message.
Enter base and height enter base and height.
this is the message.
So it is just like I'm asking you to please give me base and height.
Then you give me I will take them in variables so that is b and h.
So two values whatever you give.
I will read them.
So this is input, input is over next process.
So what is the process, formula.
What is the formula? area.
I will call it as a is assignment base into height by doing this the formula.
So even I can write them in brackets also.
Now process is over.
Now next is output.
So I have to give you the result.
So I should tell you that area is so and so the next is again output.
So for that paralellogram or  output box.
So here I should say print area is .
So this is the message I'm giving you.
So this is area is.
So the messages are written in quotes.
Then next is a.
I have the result in a so that's all the output end of the flow chart.
So this is end.
And the next thing I will write down the algorithm for this one.
So the algorithm will contain the same thing just I have to group all of them together here and I was
like an algorithm.
And after that we will write a program. algorithm area.
Now inside this let us begin not the same scripts first of all I should give a message to you I should
tell you that enter base and height then I should read the values that you
are giving me in b and h.
These are variables then I should calculate area a assign  B into h by 2 now.
Then I should print the result.
Print area is so just it just print right.
So print this one then end of this. thats it.  see whatever the contents are there in flow chart and then
algorithm looks similar because this is just formula based  program or so very simple program.
Write some extra things to write the algorithm.
Right now it looks the same now.
Next I have to write on a c++ program for this one. so first thing is hash include i should include a
header file that is iostream. then using namespace std.
I have to write down.
Then the next thing is int main function.
Now let us convert this algorithm to a program.
So inside the algorithm very first thing is enter base and height.
So it is print.
So how to write print.
We use cout so already i have used namespace so I can directly saycout enter base and height
and base and height.
So this will give a message on the screen right.
And on base and height this will appear on the screen.
Then we need b and h.
So for reading cin is there, so I should write cin that is extraction operator b done for another
variable again.
again.
write the operator
So we cannot write
Comma.
Don't get confused here.
As many variables you are rereading you should write all of them with extraction operator.
Now next important thing this b and h.
What they are? variables.
So in C++ program you must declare the variable first.
So can that is go back on the top and declare the variable which type of league tables we want here.
see this result should be in float.
So let us make everything as float.
So I will declare them as float base height and area.
So I have three variables all of them are of type float.
The next step in the algorithm we have finished with this is step and this is step the next is process.
So find out the area.
So a assign B in to h divided by two.
And this I can put it in bracket that the next step is print the result than end.
So here I will write on area is so c out first of all a message that this area is right.
There's a message then display a variable so this is a variable see the message should be double quotes
variable should not be in double quotes.
Then end of the program.
So this is the C++ program.
So first we have written the flowchart and convert it to an algorithm that is having input process output
so this also having input and then process and output so these lines are input.
And this is for process and these lines for output so I'll give the demonstration of this program in
the next video.
But before that you have a coding exercise so in that coding exercise you have to write down the formula
for this one.
So some code is already done there.
So just you have to write on the formula properly for finding the area of a triangle.
So read the description in coding exercise and also read the comments properly and complete the codings
exercise.
Then after that you will find a demonstration video that after watching it you can do it on your own
machine.
So that's all in this video.
You will learn more formulas in the coming videos, we will write more programs using just formulas and
expressions.